My high level approach to this project simply followed the suggested implementation approach given in the project description. I first created a function that reads from the command line, which I followed what I did for the previous assignment with different logic (including the url parsing which I used the suggested urllib.parse library). I edited this function as I needed more or less variables to handle in my main function. I then tried connecting to the FTP socket using the parsed components and send and read the required messages to set up the FTP control channel. Next, I implemented the 'mkdir' and 'rmdir' commands as these did not require creating a data channel. Then, I created the data channel and added the 'ls' functionality to test the data channel. Finally, I implemented the 'cp', 'mv', and 'rm' commands and abstracted the common code used in the data channel socket block and added some extra functionality to delete the original file during 'mv'. 

I faced some challenges understanding the connection between the control and the data channel as I started out reading from the wrong one and ending with several non-terminating terminals. I went to Office Hours for this, and the TA explained when I should need to read from which channel. 

I tested my code by running the various commands in the command line. For 'cp' and 'mv', I tested both local to remote and remote to local. For all of the operations, I also tested bad inputs. To ensure my code was constantly working (which I noticed was a problem for some in the Piazza), I extensively tested my code to make sure it worked each time.